---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.1: Introduction To Cloud Computing'
description: Cloud Computing, Deployments, and Benefits.
---

* [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
  * [Cloud Deployment Models](#cloud-deployment-models)
    * [Cloud Deployment (Public Cloud)](#cloud-deployment-(public-cloud))
    * [On-Premise Deployment (Private Cloud)](#on-premise-deployment-(private-cloud))
    * [Hybrid Deployment](#hybrid-deployment)
* [Benefits of Cloud Computing](#benefits-of-cloud-computing)

## Cloud Computing

Provides an on-demand and pay-as-you-go model for IT resources.

### Cloud Deployment Models

Cloud Deployment Models are ways IT resources are deployed and consumed.

There are three (3) deployment models, namely:

#### Cloud Deployment (Public Cloud)

Resources are deployed to a Cloud provider and are available to more than one entity.

#### On-Premise Deployment (Private Cloud)

Resources are deployed to the Cloud using virtualization and resource management 
tools and are only available to a single organization.

#### Hybrid Deployment

Uses a combination of Public and Private deployments.

This is beneficial for cases where there are resources that are sensitive which 
should be kept in an on-premise infrastructure that also integrates with Cloud 
services for any non-sensitive resources.

## Benefits of Cloud Computing

1. **Trade Upfront Cost over Variable Cost:** instead of paying for and managing 
   on-premise IT infrastructure upfront, with Cloud Computing entities will 
   only pay for the resources that they use.
2. **No more managing of Infrastructure:** instead of having to build the foundations 
   of a business' IT Infrastructure, Cloud providers handle the management of the 
   infrastructure while business' focus on building their products.
3. **Stop guessing capacity:** instead of planning how much infrastructure is needed 
   to deploy an application, Cloud Computing provides and easy way to scale up and 
   down as needed for services to work.
4. **Benefits from massive economies at scale:** as more and more customers move 
   into the Cloud, pay-as-you-go prices will be lower.
5. **Increase speed and agility:** focus more on what's important for your product 
   rather than building the Infrastructure that it runs on.
6. **Go global in minutes:** provide services at a global scale seamlessly.
