---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.2: Cloud Computing Services'
description: Available AWS Cloud Computing Services.
---

* [AWS Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)](#aws-elastic-cloud-compute-(ec2))
  * [Instance Types](#instance-types)
  * [Pricing](#pricing)
  * [EC2 Auto Scaling](#ec2-auto-scaling)
* [AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)](#aws-elastic-load-balancing-(elb))
* [AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS)](#aws-simple-notification-service-(sns))
* [AWS Simple Queue Service (SQS)](#aws-simple-queue-service-(sqs))
* [AWS Lambda (Serverless)](#aws-lambda-(serverless))
* [AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)](#aws-elastic-container-service-(ecs))
* [AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)](#aws-elastic-kubernetes-service-(eks))
* [AWS Fargate](#aws-fargate)

## AWS Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)

A secure and resizable Virtual Private Server (VPS).

#### Instance Types

Each EC2 instance has different computing capabilities based on their type:

| EC2 Instance Type         | Description                                               |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| **General Purpose**       | Contains a balanced configuration of computing resources. |
| **Compute Optimized**     | Contains a high-performance processor.                    |
| **Memory Optimized**      | Contains a large-volume RAM.                              |
| **Accelerated Computing** | Contains a high-performance GPU.                          |
| **Storage Optimized**     | Contains a large-volume disk.                             |

#### Pricing

There are different pricing models for EC2 compute, namely:

##### On-Demand

Pay for the amount of compute usage that an instance works on. Suitable for unsteady 
workloads or for testing purposes.

##### AWS EC2 Savings Plan

Compute costs are discounted based on a committed amount of compute usage for either a 1 
or 3-year term. Suitable for steady workloads with known capacities.

Any usage up to the committed amount is discounted, going over the commitment however will 
be priced using the On-Demand compute costs.

##### Reserved Instances

Compute costs of On-Demand instances are discounted by committing to a 1 or 3-year term. 
This can be paid in three ways:

* Upfront where you pay the full amount.
* Partial where you pay a portion.
* No-upfront payment where you only pay at the end of the term.

At the end of the term you can keep using the instance but will pay On-Demand pricing unless:

* The instance is terminated.
* A new Reserved Instance is made with the same attributes (instance type, Region, tenancy, 
  and platform).

##### Spot Instance

Uses spare or unused EC2 capacity with a discount of up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.

This has the caveat of workloads being interrupted if AWS decides to reclaim the instance 
capacity at any time.

##### Dedicated Hosts

Reserves a physical machine. Suitable for compliance requirements.

#### EC2 Auto Scaling

AWS EC2 Auto Scaling provides scalability and elasticity on-demand.

There are two scaling approaches that can be used:

* **Dynamic Scaling** scales instances on-demand.
* **Predictive Scaling** scales instances on a given period.

There are three (3) things to configuring an EC2 Auto Scaling Group:

1. **Minimum Capacity** which defines the least amount of instances to 
   be available.
2. **Desired Capacity** is the initial number of instances that are 
   ran when the service is started.
3. **Maximum Capacity** defines the max number of instances in the 
   auto scaling group.

# Module 2: Cloud Computing Services

## AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)

AWS ELB is a cloud service that distributes incoming traffic to different 
service nodes such that no service node handles the bulk of most of the requests.

## AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS)

A publish/subscriber service where publishers send data to subscribers (service nodes) 
that subscribe to certain topics (ie. a record was recently updated).

## AWS Simple Queue Service (SQS)

SQS enables asynchronous request handling by storing, sending, and receiving messages 
to and from service nodes.

## AWS Lambda (Serverless)

A service that handles the provisioning and handling of servers/instances and lets 
customers focus on building features rather than the infrastructure.

In this service, functions are *triggered* through some event like incoming requests or 
database updates.

## AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)

Container orchestration cloud service; manages containerized applications in different 
instances.

## AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)

Container orchestration cloud service using Kubernetes.

## AWS Fargate

Serverless compute engine for containers; handles the infrastructure that uses containerization 
to run applications such that customers can focus only on the features.

