---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.3: Global Infrastructure'
description: CDNs, Regions, Availability Zones, and Interacting w/ AWS.
---

* [Regions and Availability Zones](#regions-and-availability-zones)
* [Edge Locations](#edge-locations)
* [Provisioning AWS Services](#provisioning-aws-services)
  * [AWS Management Console (Web)](#aws-management-console-(web))
  * [AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)](#aws-command-line-interface-(cli))
  * [AWS Software Development Kit (SDK)](#aws-software-development-kit-(sdk))
  * [AWS Elastic Beanstalk](#aws-elastic-beanstalk)
  * [AWS CloudFormation](#aws-cloudformation)

## Regions and Availability Zones

### Regions

A geographical area that contains AWS resources.

When selecting a Region make sure to consider the following:

1. Compliance with data governance and legal requirements
2. Proximity to customers
3. Available services within a Region.
4. Pricing.

### Availability Zones

A single or group of data centers within a Region.

## Edge Locations

Are sites that provide CDNs (AWS CloudFront) and DNS (AWS Route 53) services.

## Provisioning AWS Services

There are several different ways to provision AWS services, namely:

### AWS Management Console (Web)

A web-based application that allows users to view, configure, and use different 
AWS services in the browser.

### AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)

A CLI application to provision AWS services. Best option if using shell scripts 
is preferred to automate provisioning.

### AWS Software Development Kit (SDK)

A software library that integrates with AWS services. Best option if using programming 
languages is preferred.

### AWS Beanstalk

An AWS service that takes in an application code and some configuration which will then 
automaticaly provision the infrastructure that the application will run on.

### AWS CloudFormation

An Infrastructure as Code (IaC) service: provisioning is done by defining them in a config 
file (YAML).

