---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.4: Networking'
description: VPC and ACLs.
---

* [AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)](#aws-virtual-private-cloud-(vpc))
* [Subnets and Packet Filtering](#subnets-and-packet-filtering)
  * [Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)](#network-access-control-lists-(acls))
  * [Security Groups](#security-groups)

## AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

A service that provides a virtual network within the cloud.

In order for resources within the VPC to be available to the public, a 
*public internet gateway (IWG)* must be established on the VPC.

To make the resources in the virtual network to be available privately 
(as in only available to a few handful of people), a *private* IWG must 
be established on the VPC which the users can then connect to through 
a VPN.

## AWS Direct Connect

A networking service that connects private, on-premises networks directly 
to AWS. This requires coordination with a Direct Connect provider.

## Subnets and Packet Filtering

A subnet is a section of a network that contains a range of IP addresses that 
are available.

A common network configuration is to have a public and private subnets where 
public subnets are resources that can be used publicly ie. a website, and 
private subnets are resources that are available only within the network ie. 
a database instance.

### Network Access Control Lists (ACLs)

Stateless packet filtering of inbound and outbound traffic in a subnet.

By default, ACLs are configured to allow any inbound or outbound traffic.

### Security Groups

Stateful packets filtering of inbound traffic to an instance.

By default, Security Groups are configured to deny any inbound 
traffic.

