---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.5: Storage & Databases'
description: Available AWS Storage & DB Services.
---

* [Block-Level Storage](#block-level-storage)
* [Instance Storage](#instance-storage)
* [AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS)](#aws-elastic-block-storage-(ebs))
* [Object-Level Storage](#object-level-storage)
* [AWS Simple Storage Service (S3)](#aws-simple-storage-service-(s3))
* [AWS Elastic File System (EFS)](#aws-elastic-file-system-(efs))
* [AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)](#aws-relational-database-service-(rds))
* [AWS Amazon Aurora](#aws-amazon-aurora)
* [AWS DynamoDB](#aws-dynamodb)
* [AWS Redshift](#aws-redshift)
* [AWS Database Migration Service (DMS)](#aws-database-migration-service-(dms))
* [AWS DocumentDB](#aws-documentdb)
* [AWS Neptune](#aws-neptune)
* [AWS Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)](#aws-quantum-ledger-database-(amazon-qldb))
* [AWS Managed Blockchain](#aws-managed-blockchain)
* [AWS ElastiCache](#aws-elasticache)
* [AWS DynamoDB Accelerator](#aws-dynamodb-accelerator)

## Block-Level Storage

A storage type where data is stored in fixed block sizes, each of which is 
accessed and managed independently from others.

## Instance Storage

AWS EC2 instances have integrated block-level storage facilities that can be used 
to store data.

This is useful if the data being stored is temporary because instance storage is 
lost whenever an EC2 instance is terminated as it can be ran on a different host.

## AWS Elastic Block Storage (EBS)

AWS EBS is a block-level storage device that can be attached to an EC2 instance and 
is independent of it. This means data can persist even after the instance is stopped.

This can also have *incremental backups* where subsequent backups only store data that 
has been modified.

AWS EBS can contain up to 16TB of data.

## Object-Level Storage

A storage type that contains objects and buckets where:

* **Objects** are files that contain complete and discrete data, metadata, and a key.
* **Buckets** are a collection of objects.

## AWS Simple Storage Service (S3)

AWS S3 is an object-level storage service that can store up to 5TB of data and has 
seven (7) storage classes:

* **S3 Standard** designed for frequently accessed resources such as static websites, 
  content distribution (images, videos, music), or data analytics.

* **S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (Standard-IA)** designed for infreqeuently accessed resources that 
  also need high-availability ie. backups, disaster recovery, or any objects that require 
  long-term storage.

* **S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (One Zone-IA)** provides resources in a single availability zone 
  (unlike in Standard and Standard-IA which are stored in at least 3 availability zones).
  
  Best for cost-saving and if handling data failures is something that can be easily reproduced.

* **S3 Intelligent-Tiering** automatically moves objects to different tiers such as to Standard-IA 
  or to Standard based on the access pattern ie. if a file hasn't been accessed for 30 consecutive 
  days then it gets moved to Standard-IA.

* **S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval** designed for archived objects for fast retrieval.

* **S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval** designed for archived objects that are semi-frequently accessed.

* **S3 Glacier Deep Archived** designed for long-term archived objects, ones that are access in more 
  than one-year.

* **S3 Outposts** stores objects in on-premises AWS Outposts environments.

## AWS Elastic File System (EFS)

A file-system storage that multiple services can connect to concurrently and auto-scales.

## AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)

A storage service that manages relational databases and automates tasks such as hardware 
provisioning, database setup, backups, and security.

## AWS Amazon Aurora

A cloud-native, high-performance relational database compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL.

## AWS DynamoDB

A serverless cloud service that uses NoSQL, key-value structure.

## AWS Redshift

A data warehousing service for Business Analytics/Business intelligence(BI).

## AWS Database Migration Service (DMS)

A service to migrate databases that are either in the cloud (ie. using a different cloud provider) 
or on-premises.

## AWS DocumentDB

A document database service.

## AWS Neptune

A graph database service.

## AWS Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)

A ledger database service.

## AWS Managed Blockchain

A database service for managed blockchain databases.

## AWS ElastiCache

A caching service that runs in-memory.

## AWS DynamoDB Accelerator

An in-memory caching service for DynamoDB.
