---
title: 'CLF-C01-2.6: Security & Compliance'
description: IAM and different AWS security services.
---

* [Shared Responsibility Model](#shared-responsibility-model)
* [AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)](#aws-identity-and-access-management-(iam))
* [AWS Organizations](#aws-organizations)
* [AWS Artifacts](#aws-artifacts)
* [Customer Compliance Center](#customer-compliance-center)
* [AWS Shield](#aws-shield)
* [AWS Key Management Service (KMS)](#aws-key-management-service-(kms))
* [AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)](#aws-web-application-firewall-(waf))
* [AWS Inspector](#aws-inspector)
* [AWS Guard Duty](#aws-guard-duty)

# Module 6: Security and Compliance

## Shared Responsibility Model

In AWS, maintaining cloud services are handled by both the customer and AWS such that:

* Customers manage things *in* the cloud ie. their VPC, EC2 instances, etc.
* AWS manages things *of* the cloud ie. the physical machines, storage space, etc.

## AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)

A service that manages users and the actions they can take on their respective resources.

### Root User

When a new AWS account is created, this account will be the *root* user account. Meaning it 
has all the capabilities to work on AWS resources and create IAM users and assign them roles.

### IAM User

An account created by a root user (or an IAM User with account creation priviledges).

### IAM Policies

Assigns resources and the actions that can be done to them to an IAM user.

### IAM Groups

A group-policy that can be assigned to multiple IAM users.

### IAM Roles

Multiple temporary policies that an IAM user can switch into. Note that an IAM 
user can only be in one policy at a time.

### Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

An authentication flow where after providing credentials the user should also provide 
a distinct value that proves that they really are who they say they are.

## AWS Organizations

A service that colocates users to their respective organizations which contains only 
the allowed policies within each organization through the **Service Control Policy (SCP)**.

### Organization Unit (OU)

A group that has a set of available policies that can be enforced.

## AWS Artifacts

A service for managing compliance reports and online agreements and comes in two sections:

### AWS Artifact Agreements

Provides documents regarding the use of certain types of information throughout AWS services.

### AWS Artifact Reports

Provides information for regulatory standard compliances.

## Customer Compliance Center

Contains resources and references on various customer compliance stories from 
various regulated industries.

## AWS Shield

A service to protect applications against DDoS attacks and provides two levels of protection:

### AWS Shield Standard

A free service that is automatically provided to all AWS customers. This can protect 
applications from the most common and frequent occuring types of DDoS attacks.

### AWS Shield Advanced

A service that provides better diagnostics and has the capability of deterring more sophisticated 
DDoS attacks.

## AWS Key Management Service (KMS)

A service that allows to create, manage, and use cryptographic keys.

## AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)

A service that protects applications by filtering requests through firewall policies.

## AWS Inspector

A service that provides automated security assessments and compliance.

## AWS Guard Duty

A service that provides intelligent threat detection and monitoring for AWS infrastructure 
and resources.
